Update docs on custom namespaces and cna long format (#9924)
cBioPortal/cbioportal: docs/File-Formats.md

## Discrete Copy Number Data
The discrete copy number data file contain values that would be derived from copy-number analysis algorithms like [GISTIC 2.0](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?term=18077431) or [RAE](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?term=18784837). GISTIC 2.0 can be [installed](https://www.broadinstitute.org/cgi-bin/cancer/publications/pub_paper.cgi?mode=view&paper_id=216&p=t) or run online using the GISTIC 2.0 module on [GenePattern](https://cloud.genepattern.org). For some help on using GISTIC 2.0, check the [Data Loading: Tips and Best Practices](Data-Loading-Tips-and-Best-Practices.md) page. When loading case list data, the `_cna` case list is required. See the [case list section](#case-lists).

### Wide vs Long format

> For CNA data two formats are supported: the so-called wide and long format.
> THe wide format can be described as a matrix with each row representing a genes and each column a sample.
> The long format has a row for each gene-sample combination, making the file a lot longer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For CNA data two formats are supported: the wide, and the long format:

- **Wide format**: a matrix, where each row is a gene, and each column is a sample
- **Long format**: not a matrix, each row is a gene-sample combination; this makes the file longer
```

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

### Wide format

#### Meta file 
The meta file is comprised of the following fields:

1. **cancer_study_identifier**: same value as specified in [study meta file](#cancer-study)
2. **genetic_alteration_type**: COPY_NUMBER_ALTERATION

> 3. **datatype**: `DISCRETE` (versus `DISCRETE_LONG`)

Reviewer: I think the versus is confusing. Just give them the info they need.

```suggestion
3. **datatype**: `DISCRETE`
```

...
`````

### Long format

#### Meta file 
The meta file of **wide format** is comprised of the following fields:

1. **cancer_study_identifier**: same value as specified in [study meta file](#cancer-study)
2. **genetic_alteration_type**: COPY_NUMBER_ALTERATION

> 3. **datatype**: `DISCRETE_LONG` (versus `DISCRETE`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **datatype**: `DISCRETE_LONG`
```

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

![schreenshot mutation color menu](/images/screenshot-mutation-color-menu.png) 

### Adding your own mutation annotation columns

> Additional mutation annotation columns can be added to the cBioPortal mutation data file. In this way, the portal will parse and store your own MAF fields in the database. For example, mutation data that you find on cBioPortal.org comes from MAF files that have been further enriched with information from [mutationassessor.org](https://mutationassessor.org/), which leads to a "Mutation Assessor" column in the [mutation table](https://www.cbioportal.org/index.do?cancer_study_list=acc_tcga&cancer_study_id=acc_tcga&genetic_profile_ids_PROFILE_MUTATION_EXTENDED=acc_tcga_mutations&Z_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&RPPA_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&data_priority=0&case_set_id=acc_tcga_sequenced&case_ids=&patient_case_select=sample&gene_set_choice=user-defined-list&gene_list=ZFPM1&clinical_param_selection=null&tab_index=tab_visualize&Action=Submit).

Reviewer: Line breaks

```suggestion
Additional mutation annotation columns can be added to the cBioPortal mutation data file. In this way, the portal will
parse and store your own MAF fields in the database. For example, mutation data that you find on cBioPortal.org comes
from MAF files that have been further enriched with information
from [mutationassessor.org](https://mutationassessor.org/), which leads to a "Mutation Assessor" column in
the [mutation table](https://www.cbioportal.org/index.do?cancer_study_list=acc_tcga&cancer_study_id=acc_tcga&genetic_profile_ids_PROFILE_MUTATION_EXTENDED=acc_tcga_mutations&Z_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&RPPA_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&data_priority=0&case_set_id=acc_tcga_sequenced&case_ids=&patient_case_select=sample&gene_set_choice=user-defined-list&gene_list=ZFPM1&clinical_param_selection=null&tab_index=tab_visualize&Action=Submit).
```

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

> Additional mutation annotation columns can be added to the cBioPortal mutation data file. In this way, the portal will parse and store your own MAF fields in the database. For example, mutation data that you find on cBioPortal.org comes from MAF files that have been further enriched with information from [mutationassessor.org](https://mutationassessor.org/), which leads to a "Mutation Assessor" column in the [mutation table](https://www.cbioportal.org/index.do?cancer_study_list=acc_tcga&cancer_study_id=acc_tcga&genetic_profile_ids_PROFILE_MUTATION_EXTENDED=acc_tcga_mutations&Z_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&RPPA_SCORE_THRESHOLD=2.0&data_priority=0&case_set_id=acc_tcga_sequenced&case_ids=&patient_case_select=sample&gene_set_choice=user-defined-list&gene_list=ZFPM1&clinical_param_selection=null&tab_index=tab_visualize&Action=Submit).

Reviewer: Why do we reference an `index.do` link here instead of the results page? I thought that stuff was all deprecated.

For an example see [datahub](https://github.com/cBioPortal/datahub/blob/master/public/msk_impact_2017/data_sv.txt). For an example see [datahub](https://github.com/cBioPortal/datahub/blob/master/public/msk_impact_2017/data_sv.txt). At a minimum `Sample_Id`, either `Site1_Hugo_Symbol`/ `Site1_Entrez_Gene_Id` or  `Site2_Hugo_Symbol`/ `Site2_Entrez_Gene_Id` and `SV_Status` are required. For the stuctural variant tab visualization (still in development) one needs to provide those field as well as `Site1_Ensembl_Transcript_Id`, `Site2_Ensembl_Transcript_Id`, `Site1_Region` and `Site2_Region`. Some of the other columns are shown at several other pages on the website. The `Class`, `Annotation` and `Event_Info` columns are shown prominently on several locations.
**Note**: We strongly recommend all the data providers to submit genomic locations  in addition to required fields for future visualization features. 

### Adding your own structural variant columns

> Additional mutation annotation columns can be added to the structural variant data file. In this way, the portal will parse and store your own structural variant fields in the database.

Reviewer: Line breaks

```suggestion
Additional mutation annotation columns can be added to the structural variant data file. In this way, the portal will
parse and store your own structural variant fields in the database.
```

Author: Fixed in Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

<thead><tr><th>RESOURCE_ID</th><th>URL</th></tr></thead>
<tr><td>STUDY_SPONSORS</td><td>https://url-to-study-sponsors</td></tr>
</table>

## Custom namespace columns

### Adding annotation columns through namespaces
Custom columns can be added to the data files of mutations, structural variants and discrete copy number (long) data. 

> The columns can be imported through the namespace mechanism into a database table column called `ANNOTATION_JSON`. Any columns starting with a prefix specified in the `namespaces` field in the metafile will be imported into the database. Namespace columns should be formatted as the namespace and namespace attribute seperated with a period (e.g ASCN.total_copy_number where ASCN is the namespace and total_copy_number is the attribute).

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

> The columns can be imported through the namespace mechanism into a database table column called `ANNOTATION_JSON`. Any columns starting with a prefix specified in the `namespaces` field in the metafile will be imported into the database. Namespace columns should be formatted as the namespace and namespace attribute seperated with a period (e.g ASCN.total_copy_number where ASCN is the namespace and total_copy_number is the attribute).

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

An example cBioPortal mutation data file with the following **additional** columns:
```
ASCN.total_copy_number    ASCN.clonal     MUTATION.name    MUTATION.type
```
imported with the following `namespaces` field in the metafile:
```
namespaces: ascn
```

> will import the `ASCN.total_copy_number` and `ASCN.clonal` column into the database. `MUTATION.name` and `MUTATION.type` will be ignored because `mutation` is not specified in the `namespaces` field. 

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)

## Representation of namespace columns by mutation API endpoints

Columns added through namespaces will be returned by relevant mutation, discrete copy number and structural variant API endpoints. Namespace data will be available in the `namespaceColumn` of respective JSON representations of mutation records. The `namespaceColumns` property will be a JSON object where

> namespace data is keyed by name of the namespace in lowercase. For instance, when namespace `ZYGOSITY` is defined in the meta file and the data file has column `ZYGOSITY.status` with value `Homozygous` for a mutation row, the API will return the following JSON record for this mutation (only relevant fields are shown):

Author: Fixed in [7e7ca7](https://github.com/cBioPortal/cbioportal/compare/646069c114345e4c1554f618c23396094122f4a0..7e7ca798ae5ac8bb041df89cfe1883252da1e964)
